docs/about/donate.en.md, before:

---
title: Donation Methods
---
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD036 -->
:heart: Thank you for supporting Privacy Guides.

It takes a lot of [people](https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org/graphs/contributors) and [work](https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org/pulse/monthly) to keep Privacy Guides up to date and spreading the word about privacy and mass surveillance. If you like what we do, the best way to help out is by getting involved by [editing the site](https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org) or [contributing translations](https://crowdin.com/project/privacyguides).

If you want to support us financially, the most convenient method for us is contributing via Open Collective, a website operated by our fiscal host. Open Collective accepts payments via credit/debit card, PayPal, and bank transfers.

[Donate on OpenCollective.com](https://opencollective.com/privacyguides/donate){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

Donations made directly to us Open Collective are generally tax-deductible in the US, because our fiscal host (the Open Collective Foundation) is a registered 501(c)3 organization. You will receive a receipt from the Open Collective Foundation after donating. Privacy Guides does not provide financial advice, and you should contact your tax advisor to find out whether this is applicable to you.

If you already make use of GitHub sponsorships, you can also sponsor our organization there.

[Sponsor us on GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/privacyguides){ .md-button }

Privacy Guides is a **non-profit** organization. We use donations for a variety of purposes, including:

**Domain Registrations**

:   We have a few domain names like `privacyguides.org` which cost us around $10 yearly to maintain their registration.

**Web Hosting**

:   Traffic to this website uses hundreds of gigabytes of data per month, we use a variety of service providers to keep up with this traffic.

**Online Services**

:   We host [internet services](https://privacyguides.net) for testing and showcasing different privacy-products we like and [recommend](../tools.md). Some of which are made publicly available for our community's use (SearXNG, Tor, etc.), and some are provided for our team members (email, etc.).

**Product Purchases**

:   We occasionally purchase products and services for the purposes of testing our [recommended tools](../tools.md).

We are still working with our fiscal host (the Open Collective Foundation) to receive cryptocurrency donations, at the moment the accounting is unfeasible for many smaller transactions, but this should change in the future. In the meantime, if you wish to make a sizable (> $100) cryptocurrency donation please reach out to [jonah@privacyguides.org](mailto:jonah@privacyguides.org).

Commit message:

Show backers on donation page (#1152)

docs/about/donate.en.md, after:

---
title: Supporting Us
---
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD036 -->
It takes a lot of [people](https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org/graphs/contributors) and [work](https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org/pulse/monthly) to keep Privacy Guides up to date and spreading the word about privacy and mass surveillance. If you like what we do, the best way to help out is by getting involved by [editing the site](https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org) or [contributing translations](https://crowdin.com/project/privacyguides).

If you want to support us financially, the most convenient method for us is contributing via Open Collective, a website operated by our fiscal host. Open Collective accepts payments via credit/debit card, PayPal, and bank transfers.

[Donate on OpenCollective.com](https://opencollective.com/privacyguides/donate){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

Donations made directly to us Open Collective are generally tax-deductible in the US, because our fiscal host (the Open Collective Foundation) is a registered 501(c)3 organization. You will receive a receipt from the Open Collective Foundation after donating. Privacy Guides does not provide financial advice, and you should contact your tax advisor to find out whether this is applicable to you.

If you already make use of GitHub sponsorships, you can also sponsor our organization there.

[Sponsor us on GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/privacyguides){ .md-button }

## Backers

A special thanks to all those who support our mission! :heart:

*Please note: This section loads a widget directly from Open Collective. This section does not reflect donations made outside of Open Collective, and we have no control over the specific donors featured in this section.*

<script src="https://opencollective.com/privacyguides/banner.js"></script>

## How We Use Donations

Privacy Guides is a **non-profit** organization. We use donations for a variety of purposes, including:

**Domain Registrations**

:   We have a few domain names like `privacyguides.org` which cost us around $10 yearly to maintain their registration.

**Web Hosting**

:   Traffic to this website uses hundreds of gigabytes of data per month, we use a variety of service providers to keep up with this traffic.

**Online Services**

:   We host [internet services](https://privacyguides.net) for testing and showcasing different privacy-products we like and [recommend](../tools.md). Some of which are made publicly available for our community's use (SearXNG, Tor, etc.), and some are provided for our team members (email, etc.).

**Product Purchases**

:   We occasionally purchase products and services for the purposes of testing our [recommended tools](../tools.md).

We are still working with our fiscal host (the Open Collective Foundation) to receive cryptocurrency donations, at the moment the accounting is unfeasible for many smaller transactions, but this should change in the future. In the meantime, if you wish to make a sizable (> $100) cryptocurrency donation please reach out to [jonah@privacyguides.org](mailto:jonah@privacyguides.org).
