docs/email-clients.md, before:

---
title: Email Clients
icon: material/email-open
---
Discover free, open-source, and secure email clients, along with some email alternatives you may not have considered.

??? Attention "Email does not provide forward secrecy"
    When using end-to-end encryption (E2EE) technology like [OpenPGP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretty_Good_Privacy), email will still have [some metadata](/email/#email-metadata-overview) that is not encrypted in the header of the email.

    OpenPGP also does not support [forward secrecy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forward_secrecy), which means if either your or the recipient's private key is ever stolen, all previous messages encrypted with it will be exposed: [How do I protect my private keys?](/email/#email-encryption-overview). Consider using a medium that forward secrecy:

    [Real-time Communication](/real-time-communication){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

### Thunderbird

!!! recommendation

    ![Thunderbird logo](/assets/img/email-clients/thunderbird.svg){ align=right }

    **Thunderbird** is a free, open source, cross-platform email, newsgroup, news feed, and chat (XMPP, IRC, Twitter) client developed by the Thunderbird community, and previously by the Mozilla Foundation.

    [Visit thunderbird.net](https://www.thunderbird.net){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://www.mozilla.org/privacy/thunderbird){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-windows: Windows](https://www.thunderbird.net)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-apple: macOS](https://www.thunderbird.net)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-linux: Linux](https://www.thunderbird.net)
    - [:pg-flathub: Flatpak](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.mozilla.Thunderbird)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-git: Source](https://hg.mozilla.org/comm-central)

### GNOME Evolution

!!! recommendation

    ![Evolution logo](/assets/img/email-clients/evolution.svg){ align=right }

    **Evolution** is a personal information management application that provides integrated mail, calendaring and address book functionality. Evolution has extensive [documentation](https://help.gnome.org/users/evolution/stable/) to help you get started.

    [Visit gnome.org](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Evolution){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Evolution/PrivacyPolicy){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:pg-flathub: Flatpak](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.gnome.Evolution)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-gitlab: Source](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/evolution)

### Kontact

!!! recommendation

    ![Kontact logo](/assets/img/email-clients/kontact.svg){ align=right }

    **Kontact** is a personal information manager (PIM) application from the [KDE](https://kde.org) project. It provides a mail client, address book, organizer and RSS client.

    [Visit kontact.kde.org](https://kontact.kde.org){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://kde.org/privacypolicy-apps){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-linux: Linux](https://kontact.kde.org/download)
    - [:pg-flathub: Flatpak](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.kde.kontact)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-git: Source](https://invent.kde.org/pim/kmail)

### Mailvelope

!!! recommendation

    ![Mailvelope logo](/assets/img/email-clients/mailvelope.svg){ align=right }

    **Mailvelope** is a browser extension that enables the exchange of encrypted emails following the OpenPGP encryption standard.

    [Visit mailvelope.com](https://www.mailvelope.com){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://www.mailvelope.com/en/privacy-policy){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-firefox: Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/firefox/addon/mailvelope)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-chrome: Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/mailvelope/kajibbejlbohfaggdiogboambcijhkke)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-edge: Edge](https://microsoftedge.microsoft.com/addons/detail/mailvelope/dgcbddhdhjppfdfjpciagmmibadmoapc)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-github: Source](https://github.com/mailvelope/mailvelope)

### K-9 Mail

!!! recommendation

    ![K-9 Mail logo](/assets/img/email-clients/k9mail.svg){ align=right }

    **K-9 Mail** is an independent mail application that supports both POP3 and IMAP mailboxes, but only supports push mail for IMAP.

    [Visit k9mail.app](https://k9mail.app){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://k9mail.app/privacy){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-google-play: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fsck.k9)
    - [:pg-f-droid: F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.fsck.k9)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-github: Source](https://github.com/k9mail)

### FairEmail

!!! recommendation

    ![FairEmail logo](/assets/img/email-clients/fairemail.svg){ align=right }

    **FairEmail** is a minimal, open source email app, using open standards (IMAP, SMTP, OpenPGP) with a low data and battery usage.

    [Visit email.faircode.eu](https://email.faircode.eu){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://github.com/M66B/FairEmail/blob/master/PRIVACY.md){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-google-play: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=eu.faircode.email)
    - [:pg-f-droid: F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.fsck.k9)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-github: Source](https://github.com/M66B/FairEmail)

### Canary Mail

!!! recommendation

    ![Canary Mail logo](/assets/img/email-clients/canarymail.svg){ align=right }

    **Canary Mail** is a paid email client designed to make end-to-end encryption seamless with security features such as a biometric app lock.

    !!! attention
        Canary Mail is closed source. We recommend it, due to the few choices there are for email clients on iOS that support [Pretty Good Privacy (PGP)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretty_Good_Privacy), end-to-end encryption (E2EE).

    !!! note
        Canary Mail only recently released a Windows and Android client we don't believe they are as stable as their iOS and Mac counterparts.

    [Visit canarymail.io](https://canarymail.io){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://canarymail.io/privacy.html){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-windows: Windows](https://download.canarymail.io/get_windows)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-app-store: Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1236045954)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-app-store-ios: App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1236045954)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-google-play: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.canarymail.android)

### Neomutt

!!! recommendation

    ![Neomutt logo](/assets/img/email-clients/mutt.svg){ align=right }

    NeoMutt is an open-source command line mail reader (or MUA) for Linux and BSD. It's a fork of [Mutt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutt_(email_client)) with added features.

    !!! info
        Neomut is a text-based client that has a steep learning curve. It is however, very customizable.

    [Visit neomutt.org](https://neomutt.org){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-linux: Linux](https://neomutt.org/distro)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-apple: macOS](https://neomutt.org/distro)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-github: Source](https://github.com/neomutt/neomutt)

Commit message:

Add Apple Mail, fix opening and macgpg description (#839)

docs/email-clients.md, after:

---
title: Email Clients
icon: material/email-open
---
Our recommendation list contains email clients that support both [OpenPGP](/encryption/#openpgp) and strong authentication such as [Open Authorization (OAuth)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OAuth). OAuth allows you to use [Multi-Factor Authentication](/multi-factor-authentication) and prevent account theft.

??? Attention "Email does not provide forward secrecy"
    When using end-to-end encryption (E2EE) technology like [OpenPGP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretty_Good_Privacy), email will still have [some metadata](/email/#email-metadata-overview) that is not encrypted in the header of the email.

    OpenPGP also does not support [forward secrecy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forward_secrecy), which means if either your or the recipient's private key is ever stolen, all previous messages encrypted with it will be exposed: [How do I protect my private keys?](/email/#email-encryption-overview). Consider using a medium that forward secrecy:

    [Real-time Communication](/real-time-communication){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

### Thunderbird

!!! recommendation

    ![Thunderbird logo](/assets/img/email-clients/thunderbird.svg){ align=right }

    **Thunderbird** is a free, open source, cross-platform email, newsgroup, news feed, and chat (XMPP, IRC, Twitter) client developed by the Thunderbird community, and previously by the Mozilla Foundation.

    [Visit thunderbird.net](https://www.thunderbird.net){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://www.mozilla.org/privacy/thunderbird){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-windows: Windows](https://www.thunderbird.net)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-apple: macOS](https://www.thunderbird.net)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-linux: Linux](https://www.thunderbird.net)
    - [:pg-flathub: Flatpak](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.mozilla.Thunderbird)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-git: Source](https://hg.mozilla.org/comm-central)

### Apple Mail

!!! recommendation

    ![Apple Mail logo](/assets/img/email-clients/applemail.png){ align=right }

    **Apple Mail** is included in macOS and can be extended to have OpenPGP support with [GPG Suite](/encryption/#gpg-suite), which adds the ability to send encrypted email.

    !!! note
        For iOS devices we suggest [Canary Mail](/email-clients/#canary-mail) as it has PGP support which means you can send end-to-end encrypted email.

    [Visit apple.com](https://support.apple.com/guide/mail/welcome/mac){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://www.apple.com/legal/privacy/en-ww/){ .md-button }

### GNOME Evolution

!!! recommendation

    ![Evolution logo](/assets/img/email-clients/evolution.svg){ align=right }

    **Evolution** is a personal information management application that provides integrated mail, calendaring and address book functionality. Evolution has extensive [documentation](https://help.gnome.org/users/evolution/stable/) to help you get started.

    [Visit gnome.org](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Evolution){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Evolution/PrivacyPolicy){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:pg-flathub: Flatpak](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.gnome.Evolution)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-gitlab: Source](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/evolution)

### Kontact

!!! recommendation

    ![Kontact logo](/assets/img/email-clients/kontact.svg){ align=right }

    **Kontact** is a personal information manager (PIM) application from the [KDE](https://kde.org) project. It provides a mail client, address book, organizer and RSS client.

    [Visit kontact.kde.org](https://kontact.kde.org){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://kde.org/privacypolicy-apps){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-linux: Linux](https://kontact.kde.org/download)
    - [:pg-flathub: Flatpak](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.kde.kontact)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-git: Source](https://invent.kde.org/pim/kmail)

### Mailvelope

!!! recommendation

    ![Mailvelope logo](/assets/img/email-clients/mailvelope.svg){ align=right }

    **Mailvelope** is a browser extension that enables the exchange of encrypted emails following the OpenPGP encryption standard.

    [Visit mailvelope.com](https://www.mailvelope.com){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://www.mailvelope.com/en/privacy-policy){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-firefox: Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/firefox/addon/mailvelope)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-chrome: Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/mailvelope/kajibbejlbohfaggdiogboambcijhkke)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-edge: Edge](https://microsoftedge.microsoft.com/addons/detail/mailvelope/dgcbddhdhjppfdfjpciagmmibadmoapc)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-github: Source](https://github.com/mailvelope/mailvelope)

### K-9 Mail

!!! recommendation

    ![K-9 Mail logo](/assets/img/email-clients/k9mail.svg){ align=right }

    **K-9 Mail** is an independent mail application that supports both POP3 and IMAP mailboxes, but only supports push mail for IMAP.

    [Visit k9mail.app](https://k9mail.app){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://k9mail.app/privacy){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-google-play: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.fsck.k9)
    - [:pg-f-droid: F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.fsck.k9)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-github: Source](https://github.com/k9mail)

### FairEmail

!!! recommendation

    ![FairEmail logo](/assets/img/email-clients/fairemail.svg){ align=right }

    **FairEmail** is a minimal, open source email app, using open standards (IMAP, SMTP, OpenPGP) with a low data and battery usage.

    [Visit email.faircode.eu](https://email.faircode.eu){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://github.com/M66B/FairEmail/blob/master/PRIVACY.md){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-google-play: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=eu.faircode.email)
    - [:pg-f-droid: F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.fsck.k9)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-github: Source](https://github.com/M66B/FairEmail)

### Canary Mail

!!! recommendation

    ![Canary Mail logo](/assets/img/email-clients/canarymail.svg){ align=right }

    **Canary Mail** is a paid email client designed to make end-to-end encryption seamless with security features such as a biometric app lock.

    !!! attention
        Canary Mail is closed source. We recommend it, due to the few choices there are for email clients on iOS that support [Pretty Good Privacy (PGP)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretty_Good_Privacy), end-to-end encryption (E2EE).

    !!! note
        Canary Mail only recently released a Windows and Android client we don't believe they are as stable as their iOS and Mac counterparts.

    [Visit canarymail.io](https://canarymail.io){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Privacy Policy](https://canarymail.io/privacy.html){ .md-button }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-windows: Windows](https://download.canarymail.io/get_windows)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-app-store: Mac App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1236045954)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-app-store-ios: App Store](https://apps.apple.com/app/id1236045954)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-google-play: Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.canarymail.android)

### Neomutt

!!! recommendation

    ![Neomutt logo](/assets/img/email-clients/mutt.svg){ align=right }

    NeoMutt is an open-source command line mail reader (or MUA) for Linux and BSD. It's a fork of [Mutt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutt_(email_client)) with added features.

    !!! info
        Neomut is a text-based client that has a steep learning curve. It is however, very customizable.

    [Visit neomutt.org](https://neomutt.org){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

    **Downloads**
    - [:fontawesome-brands-linux: Linux](https://neomutt.org/distro)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-apple: macOS](https://neomutt.org/distro)
    - [:fontawesome-brands-github: Source](https://github.com/neomutt/neomutt)
